                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                   SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS IN STATE AND                       
                LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, 1790-1915: [UNITED STATES]                   
                                                                                
                                (ICPSR 9728)                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                          Codebook for Parts 65-94                              
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                           Principal Investigators                              
                                                                                
                              Richard E. Sylla                                  
                             New York University                                
                                                                                
                               John B. Legler                                   
                            University of Georgia                               
                                                                                
                                    and                                         
                                                                                
                                 John Wallis                                    
                           University of Maryland                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                             First ICPSR Release                                
                                February 1995                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                       Inter-university Consortium for                          
                        Political and Social Research                           
                                P.O. Box 1248                                   
                          Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106                             
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                             BIBLIOGRAPHIC CITATION                             
                                                                                
                                                                                
            Publications  based  on  ICPSR  data  collections  should           
            acknowledge  those  sources  by  means  of  bibliographic           
            citations.  To ensure that such source  attributions  are           
            captured  for  social  science  bibliographic  utilities,           
            citations must appear in footnotes or  in  the  reference           
            section  of publications.  The bibliographic citation for           
            this data collection is:                                            
                                                                                
                                                                                
                 Sylla, Richard E., John  B.  Legler,  and  John                
                 Wallis.  SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS IN STATE AND                
                 LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, 1790-1915:  [UNITED  STATES]                
                 [PARTS  65-94]  [Computer  file]. New York, NY:                
                 Richard E. Sylla, New  York  University/Athens,                
                 GA:    John    B.    Legler,    University   of                
                 Georgia/College   Park,   MD:   John    Wallis,                
                 University  of  Maryland [producers], 1994. Ann                
                 Arbor, MI: Inter-university for  Political  and                
                 Social Research [distributor], 1995.                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON USE OF ICPSR RESOURCES               
                                                                                
            To provide funding agencies  with  essential  information           
            about  use  of  archival  resources and to facilitate the           
            exchange  of  information   about   ICPSR   participants'           
            research activities, users of ICPSR data are requested to           
            send to ICPSR bibliographic citations for each  completed           
            manuscript or thesis abstract. Please indicate in a cover           
            letter which data were used.                                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                 DATA DISCLAIMER                                
                                                                                
            The original  collector  of  the  data,  ICPSR,  and  the           
            relevant  funding  agency bear no responsibility for uses           
            of this collection or for interpretations  or  inferences           
            based upon such uses.                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                         DATA COLLECTION DESCRIPTION                            
                                                                                
                                                                                
     Richard E. Sylla, John B. Legler, and John Wallis                          
          SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS  IN  STATE  AND  LOCAL  GOVERNMENTS,        
     1790-1915: [UNITED STATES] (ICPSR 9728)                                    
                                                                                
     SUMMARY: This data collection contains preliminary  financial  data        
     on  state government revenues and expenditures for 48 states during        
     the period 1790-1915, plus final data on state government revenues,        
     expenditures,  and debt for Missouri during 1849-1915, Parts 95 and        
     96.  Parts 98 and 99, Final  Raw  Data  on  Missouri  Revenues  and        
     Expenditures, are similar to Parts 95 and 96, with two differences.        
     First, they contain every line entry that was transcribed from  the        
     original  source.  Second,  the  files  have a line identifier that        
     shows the order in which the data came from  the  original  source.        
     Variables  in  the  data collection include state, year, and dollar        
     amounts of revenues and expenditures at four levels of aggregation:        
     (1)  total  expenditures  and  revenues,  (2) major categories that        
     match  the  major  20th-century  categories  of  expenditures   and        
     revenues,  (3) minor categories that correspond to special features        
     of 19th- and/or 20th-century  governments,  and  (4)  idiosyncratic        
     categories that differ from state to state. Part 100 contains codes        
     for categories of expenditures, revenues, and debt for Parts 95-97.        
                                                                                
     UNIVERSE:  Financial  records  of   Alabama,   Arizona,   Arkansas,        
     California,  Colorado,  Connecticut,  Delaware,  Florida,  Georgia,        
     Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,        
     Maryland,    Massachusetts,   Michigan,   Minnesota,   Mississippi,        
     Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New        
     Mexico,  New  York,  North  Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma,        
     Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina,  South  Dakota,        
     Tennessee,   Texas,   Utah,  Vermont,  Virginia,  Washington,  West        
     Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.                                          
                                                                                
     NOTE:  (1)  The  files  use  commas  and  quote  marks  to  delimit        
     variables.   (2)  See  also  STATE  AND  LOCAL  GOVERNMENT  [UNITED        
     STATES]: SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS,  CENSUS  STATISTICS,  TWENTIETH        
     CENTURY  [THROUGH  1982]  (ICPSR  6304), STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT        
     [UNITED STATES]: SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS, CITY AND  COUNTY  DATA,        
     NINETEENTH  CENTURY  (ICPSR  6305),  and STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT        
     [UNITED  STATES]:  SOURCES  AND  USES  OF  FUNDS,  STATE  FINANCIAL        
     STATISTICS, 1933-1937 (ICPSR 6306).                                        
                                                                                
     EXTENT  OF  COLLECTION:   100   data   files   +   machine-readable        
     documentation (text)                                                       
                                                                                
     DATA FORMAT: Logical Record Length                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
     Part 1: AKREV.ISR: Preliminary Alaska Revenues Data                        
     Part 2: AKEXP.ISR: Preliminary Alaska Expenditures Data                    
     Part 3: ALREV.ISR: Preliminary Alabama Revenues Data                       
     Part 4: ALEXP.ISR: Preliminary Alabama Expenditures Data                   
     Part 5: COREV.ISR: Preliminary Colorado Revenues Data                      
     Part 6: DEREV.ISR: Preliminary Delaware Revenues Data                      
     Part 7: DEEXP.ISR: Preliminary Delaware Expenditures Data                  
     Part 8: ILREV.ISR: Preliminary Illinois Revenues Data                      
     Part 9: ILEXP.ISR: Preliminary Illinois Expenditures Data                  
     Part 10: INREV.ISR: Preliminary Indiana Revenues Data                      
     Part 11: INEXP.ISR: Preliminary Indiana Expenditures Data                  
     Part 12: KSREV.ISR: Preliminary Kansas Revenues Data                       
     Part 13: KSEXP.ISR: Preliminary Kansas Expenditures Data                   
     Part 14: MAREV.ISR: Preliminary Massachusetts Revenues Data                
     Part 15: MAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Massachusetts Expenditures Data            
     Part 16: MDREV.ISR: Preliminary Maryland Revenues Data                     
     Part 17: MDEXP.ISR: Preliminary Maryland Expenditures Data                 
     Part 18: MEREV.ISR: Preliminary Maine Revenues Data                        
     Part 19: MEEXP.ISR: Preliminary Maine Expenditures Data                    
     Part 20: MIREV.ISR: Preliminary Michigan Revenues Data                     
     Part 21: MIEXP.ISR: Preliminary Michigan Expenditures Data                 
     Part 22: MNREV.ISR: Preliminary Minnesota Revenues Data                    
     Part 23: MNEXP.ISR: Preliminary Minnesota Expenditures Data                
     Part 24: MOREV.ISR: Preliminary Missouri Revenues Data                     
     Part 25: MOEXP.ISR: Preliminary Missouri Expenditures Data                 
     Part 26: MSREV.ISR: Preliminary Mississippi Revenues Data                  
     Part 27: MSEXP.ISR: Preliminary Mississippi Expenditures Data              
     Part 28: MTREV.ISR: Preliminary Montana Revenues Data                      
     Part 29: NCREV.ISR: Preliminary North Carolina Revenues Data               
     Part 30: NCEXP.ISR: Preliminary North Carolina Expenditures Data           
     Part 31: NDREV.ISR: Preliminary North Dakota Revenues Data                 
     Part 32: NDEXP.ISR: Preliminary North Dakota Expenditures Data             
     Part 33: NEREV.ISR: Preliminary Nebraska Revenues Data                     
     Part 34: NEEXP.ISR: Preliminary Nebraska Expenditures Data                 
     Part 35: NHREV.ISR: Preliminary New Hampshire Revenues Data                
     Part 36: NHEXP.ISR: Preliminary New Hampshire Expenditures Data            
     Part 37: NJREV.ISR: Preliminary New Jersey Revenues Data                   
     Part 38: NJEXP.ISR: Preliminary New Jersey Expenditures Data               
     Part 39: NVREV.ISR: Preliminary Nevada Revenues Data                       
     Part 40: NVEXP.ISR: Preliminary Nevada Expenditures Data                   
     Part 41: OHREV.ISR: Preliminary Ohio Revenues Data                         
     Part 42: OHEXP.ISR: Preliminary Ohio Expenditures Data                     
     Part 43: OKREV.ISR: Preliminary Oklahoma Revenues Data                     
     Part 44: OKEXP.ISR: Preliminary Oklahoma Expenditures Data                 
     Part 45: PAREV.ISR: Preliminary Pennsylvania Revenues Data                 
     Part 46: PAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Pennsylvania Expenditures Data             
     Part 47: RIREV.ISR: Preliminary Rhode Island Revenues Data                 
     Part 48: RIEXP.ISR: Preliminary Rhode Island Expenditures Data             
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
     Part 49: SCREV.ISR: Preliminary South Carolina Revenues Data               
     Part 50: SCEXP.ISR: Preliminary South Carolina Expenditures Data           
     Part 51: SDREV.ISR: Preliminary South Dakota Revenues Data                 
     Part 52: SDEXP.ISR: Preliminary South Dakota Expenditures Data             
     Part 53: TNREV.ISR: Preliminary Tennessee Revenues Data                    
     Part 54: TNEXP.ISR: Preliminary Tennessee Expenditures Data                
     Part 55: UTREV.ISR: Preliminary Utah Revenues Data                         
     Part 56: UTEXP.ISR: Preliminary Utah Expenditures Data                     
     Part 57: VAREV.ISR: Preliminary Virginia Revenues Data                     
     Part 58: VAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Virginia Expenditures Data                 
     Part 59: VTREV.ISR: Preliminary Vermont Revenues Data                      
     Part 60: VTEXP.ISR: Preliminary Vermont Expenditures Data                  
     Part 61: WAREV.ISR: Preliminary Washington Revenues Data                   
     Part 62: WAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Washington Expenditures Data               
     Part 63: WYREV.ISR: Preliminary Wyoming Revenues Data                      
     Part 64: WYEXP.ISR: Preliminary Wyoming Expenditures Data                  
     Part 65: AZEXP.ISR: Preliminary Arizona Expenditures Data                  
     Part 66: AZREV.ISR: Preliminary Arizona Revenues Data                      
     Part 67: CAEXP.ISR: Preliminary California Expenditures Data               
     Part 68: CAREV.ISR: Preliminary California Revenues Data                   
     Part 69: CTEXP.ISR: Preliminary Connecticut Expenditures Data              
     Part 70: CTREV.ISR: Preliminary Connecticut Revenues Data                  
     Part 71: FLEXP.ISR: Preliminary Florida Expenditures Data                  
     Part 72: FLREV.ISR: Preliminary Florida Revenues Data                      
     Part 73: GAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Georgia Expenditures Data                  
     Part 74: GAREV.ISR: Preliminary Georgia Revenues Data                      
     Part 75: IDEXP.ISR: Preliminary Idaho Expenditures Data                    
     Part 76: IDREV.ISR: Preliminary Idaho Revenues Data                        
     Part 77: IOEXP.ISR: Preliminary Iowa Expenditures Data                     
     Part 78: IOREV.ISR: Preliminary Iowa Revenues Data                         
     Part 79: KYEXP.ISR: Preliminary Kentucky Expenditures Data                 
     Part 80: KYREV.ISR: Preliminary Kentucky Revenues Data                     
     Part 81: LAEXP.ISR: Preliminary Louisiana Expenditures Data                
     Part 82: LAREV.ISR: Preliminary Louisiana Revenues Data                    
     Part 83: NMEXP.ISR: Preliminary New Mexico Expenditures Data               
     Part 84: NMREV.ISR: Preliminary New Mexico Revenues Data                   
     Part 85: NYEXP.ISR: Preliminary New York Expenditures Data                 
     Part 86: NYREV.ISR: Preliminary New York Revenues Data                     
     Part 87: OREXP.ISR: Preliminary Oregon Expenditures Data                   
     Part 88: ORREV.ISR: Preliminary Oregon Revenues Data                       
     Part 89: TXEXP.ISR: Preliminary Texas Expenditures Data                    
     Part 90: TXREV.ISR: Preliminary Texas Revenues Data                        
     Part 91: WIEXP.ISR: Preliminary Wisconsin Expenditures Data                
     Part 92: WIREV.ISR: Preliminary Wisconsin Revenues Data                    
     Part 93: WVEXP.ISR: Preliminary West Virginia Expenditures Data            
     Part 94: WVREV.ISR: Preliminary West Virginia Revenues Data                
     Part 95: MOEXP.ISR: Final Missouri Expenditures Data                       
     Part 96: MOREV.ISR: Final Missouri Revenues Data                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1                                                                               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
     Part 97: MODEBT.ISR: Final Missouri Debt Data                              
     Part 98: MOISRRRR.ISR: Final Raw Data on Missouri Revenues                 
     Part 99: MOISRXXX.ISR: Final Raw Data on Missouri Expenditures             
     Part 100: MOCODE.ISR: Categories of Expenditures, Revenues, and Debt       
       for Parts 95-97                                                          
                                                                                
     File Structure: rectangular                                                
     Cases: 4 to 5,715 per part                                                 
     Variables: 2 to 5 per part                                                 
     Record Length: 18 to 66 per part                                           
     Records Per Case: 1                                                        
                                                                                
     Part 101: Codebook for                  Part 102: Codebook for             
       Parts 1-64                              Parts 65-94                      
     Record Length: 80                       Record Length: 80                  
                                                                                
     Part 103: Codebook for                                                     
       Parts 95-100                                                             
     Record Length: 80                                                          
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 1                   
                                                                                
            State and Local Government: Sources and Uses of Funds               
                                                                                
    Sponsoring Agency: National Bureau of Economic Research                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Principal Investigators:                                                    
                                                                                
    Richard E. Sylla                                                            
        Leonard N. Stern School of Business                                     
        New York University                                                     
        100 Trinity Place                                                       
        New York, NY 10006-1594                                                 
                                                                                
    John B. Legler                                                              
        Department of Economics                                                 
        University of Georgia                                                   
        Athens, GA                                                              
                                                                                
    John Wallis                                                                 
        Department of Economics                                                 
        University of Maryland                                                  
        College Park, MD 10742                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Funded by:                                                                  
                                                                                
        National Science Foundation                                             
                Grants: SES-8419857, SES-8706814, SES-8908272, and              
                        SBR-9108618                                             
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Data Edition:                                                               
                                                                                
        Preliminary Release, March 1994                                         
                                                                                
        Covering: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida,                    
                  Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana,                    
                  New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Texas, West Virginia,           
                  and Wisconsin.                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    Page 2                                            ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
        The data in this study are made available through ICPSR.                
    They were originally collected by Richard Sylla, John Legler, and           
    John Wallis.  Neither the original investigators, the National              
    Bureau of Economic Research, or ICPSR bear any responsibility for           
    the analysis or interpretations presented here.  Nor are they               
    responsible for any uses to which this data may be put.                     
                                                                                
        Individuals receiving and using this data are strongly urged            
    to inform the ICPSR and the principle investigators of any errors           
    or discrepancies discovered during the use of this data.  In                
    order to provide agencies with essential information about the              
    use of archival sources and to facilitate the exchange of                   
    information, each user is expected to send two copies of                    
    completed manuscripts (or thesis) of work based on these data to            
    ICPSR.                                                                      
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 3                   
                                                                                
                          Table of Contents                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
                Data Collection and Coding ...................... 4             
                                                                                
                Data Sources .................................... 5             
                                                                                
                Form of Machine Readable Data ................... 6             
                                                                                
                Important Caveats ............................... 7             
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    Page 4                                            ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
        This codebook describes the "preliminary" release of state              
    financial data collected by Richard Sylla, John Legler, and John            
    Wallis under NSF Grants SES-8419857, SES-8706814, SES-8908272,              
    and SBR-9108618.   This data is part of a larger data set                   
    containing information on state and local government finances               
    between 1790 and 1980.  The current data set contains information           
    on state government revenues and expenditures between,                      
    approximately, 1790 and 1915.  This release of the data includes            
    information for fifteen states.  Earlier releases of preliminary            
    data were made in 1991 and 1992, and revisions of preliminary               
    data sets will occur as the data becomes available.  There is now           
    preliminary data for every state.  Final data sets for individual           
    states are also being released.                                             
                                                                                
        It must be recognized that this is a PRELIMINARY data set.              
    There are many, multi-dimensional holes in the data.  The most              
    obvious is missing years.  Less obvious are, as yet, uncorrected            
    problems of misclassification, double counting, and inadvertent             
    omission of relevant data.  In other words, caveat emptor]                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Data Collection and Coding                                                  
                                                                                
        We began collecting data with three objectives in mind.  The            
    first was to make our categories consistent with the existing               
    categories used by the census in the 20th century, so that we can           
    match our data with theirs.  The second was to facilitate the               
    collection of the data.  This was particularly important since we           
    typically face the problem of too much rather than too little               
    information.  A method for organizing detail without losing                 
    information was of primary importance.  Finally, we needed a                
    method that could be followed independently by the three                    
    principal investigators operating at some distances from one                
    another.                                                                    
                                                                                
        The solution adopted resembles the standard industrial                  
    classification (SIC) codes. Expenditures, revenues, and debt are            
    given one-digit classifications; major categories that match the            
    major 20th-century categories are given two-digit                           
    classifications; minor categories that correspond to the special            
    features of 19th- and/or 20th-century features of government are            
    given three-digit codes; and idiosyncratic divisions, which                 
    differ from state to state are given unique four-digit codes in             
    each state.  This allows us to design a classification (coding)             
    scheme for each state at the four-digit level that can be                   
    aggregated into two- and three-digit categories that are                    
    identical for every state by using a simple sorting program.                
                                                                                
        No coding scheme can be completely consistent with the                  
    census classifications, since the census has continually changed            
    its classifications over the twentieth century.   We, therefore,            
    started with the major divisions of revenues and expenditures               
    from the Census of Governments after 1960.  To that we added the            
    major revenue and expenditure categories from the census for                
    early part of the century excluded as categories after 1950.  The           
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 5                   
                                                                                
    result is the major categories listed in Tables 1 and 2.  These             
    are the major two-digit classifications.                                    
                                                                                
        Finer classifications, taken from actual census categories              
    and from our own experience with the 19th century data, make up a           
    set of three-digit categories.  The three digit categories are              
    subsets of the two-digit categories.  In other words, the sum of            
    all of the three-digit categories associated with a particular              
    two-digit category, is the total for that two-digit category.  So           
    the sum of the three digit codes 2110 through 2190, is equal to             
    the total for the two-digit code 2100.  The three-digit codes are           
    shown in Tables 3 and 4.                                                    
                                                                                
        In practice, the raw data is very heterogeneous.  States                
    called similar financial items by different names, different                
    items by similar names, and classified debt and intragovernmental           
    transfers in different ways.  Therefore, a unique set of                    
    four-digit classifications was created for each state.  That is,            
    while all of the one-, two-, and three-digit codes are the same             
    in every state, the four-digit codes are different for every                
    state.                                                                      
                                                                                
        We begin the collection process by assigning a four-digit               
    code to every line entry on revenues and expenditures in the                
    source document (these are discussed below). The raw financial              
    data and the codes were then entered into a spreadsheet file                
    using Lotus.  The data were then transferred to a Paradox                   
    database file where the data are sorted and aggregated by code.             
    Then totals for each of the three-digit classifications are                 
    calculated.  Since the three-digit classifications are the same             
    for every state, we then have comparable financial statistics for           
    every state.                                                                
                                                                                
        The current data release does not include the four-digit                
    files.  We are willing to let people have access to them, and the           
    final data release will include them.  The four-digit files,                
    however, are really only useful in connection with the source               
    documents.  Code 2924 doesn't mean the same thing in Vermont and            
    it does in Tennessee, although 2920 does mean the same thing (at            
    least in our judgement: dividends from bank stock).  In order to            
    make sense of the four-digit codes, then, you need our                      
    classification sheets for each state and the original source                
    document.                                                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Data Sources                                                                
                                                                                
        What then are these source documents?  We went back to the              
    existing record of state governments, primarily Treasurer's                 
    Reports, Auditor's Reports, and Comptroller's Reports.  After               
    1840 or so most of these documents are available at the Library             
    of Congress.  Before 1840 we have relied on the LC/University of            
    North Carolina Microfilm record of state government documents and           
    trips to state archives.  The first step was to determine which             
    of the available reports was most useful.  The second step was to           
1    Page 6                                            ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
    xerox the documents.                                                        
                                                                                
        We brought the documents back to our respective Universities            
    and set research assistants to "coding" the documents.  This                
    required that each financial entry, each line of the Report be              
    given an appropriate four-code.  The data was then entered into             
    the computer in the following form:                                         
                                                                                
    =========================================                                   
        STATE    YEAR    ISO    TOTAL                                           
    =========================================                                   
                                                                                
    Where:                                                                      
                                                                                
        STATE = State                                                           
                                                                                
        YEAR  = Fiscal Year, or, in the case of states that                     
                maintained biennial or other) records, the calendar             
                year in which the current fiscal period ended.                  
                                                                                
        ISO   = the appropriate four-digit code.                                
                                                                                
        TOTAL = the dollar amount of the revenue, expenditure, or               
                debt.                                                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
        The data is organized vertically rather than horizontally.              
    The "observation" is a line entry from the source document,                 
    coupled with is state, year, and code.  This allowed us the                 
    maximum of flexibility in using database capabilities.                      
                                                                                
        It was then a simple process to add up the individual four-             
    digit numbers into four-digit totals, and do likewise for three-,           
    two-, and one-digit totals.  The last three sets of totals, for             
    revenues and expenditures are on the data tapes accompanying this           
    codebook.                                                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Form of Machine Readable Data                                               
                                                                                
        The data tapes that you are trying to figure out how use                
    have a simple structure.  There are two data files for each                 
    state: one for revenues and one for expenditures.  Each file                
    begins with a two digit alphanumeric states abbreviation (we use            
    the postal abbreviations) followed by __REV.ISR for revenues and            
    __EXP.ISR for expenditures.                                                 
                                                                                
        The files are ASCII files, using a commas and quotes to                 
    delimit variables.  Each file contains three sub-files.  Each               
    sub-file contains information on a different level of                       
    aggregation, given in descending order of aggregation.  Every               
    observation in the data files has the same structure.  There are            
    four variables per observation:                                             
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 7                   
                                                                                
    =========================================                                   
       STATE   YEAR   ISO    TOTAL                                              
    =========================================                                   
                                                                                
    where the definitions are the same as above.                                
                                                                                
        I will use Oklahoma as an example, since the whole revenue              
    file can be printed on one page.  [Oklahoma was in the earleir              
    data release.]  It is shown in Table 5.  (We only have data for             
    three years on Oklahoma, 1908, 1909, and 1911).                             
                                                                                
                                                                                
        The first sub-file gives the revenue totals, this is the 1-             
    digit sub-file. The ISO code for total revenues is "1".  There is           
    a blank line at the end of the 1-digit sub-file.                            
                                                                                
        The 2-digit sub-file includes all 2-digit ISO codes (for                
    revenues they all start with 1 or 2, for expenditures with 3 or             
    4).  There is a blank line at the end of the 2-digit sub-file.              
                                                                                
        The 3-digit sub-file includes all 3-digit ISO codes (for                
    revenues they all start with 1 or 2, for expenditures with 3 or             
    4).  There is a blank line at the end of the 3-digit sub-file.              
                                                                                
    The order of the sub-files for every state is:                              
                                                                                
    Revenues, Totals                                                            
    Revenues, 2-Digit                                                           
    Revenues, 3-Digit                                                           
    Expenditures, Totals                                                        
    Expenditures, 2-Digit                                                       
    Expenditures, 3-Digit                                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
        Each state has data on six sub-files.  These files can be               
    broken up and entered separately, or they can be entered all at             
    once.   For example, one could easily combine the revenue and               
    expenditure files and enter the entire file into a database                 
    program and sort by codes.                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
    Important Caveats                                                           
                                                                                
        There are several things you should be aware of, even when              
    there are not any problems with the underlying data:                        
                                                                                
        - Total Revenues have the code "1" and Total Expenditures               
    have the code "3".                                                          
                                                                                
        - Two- and three-digit revenues have codes that start with              
    the number "1" or "2"; two- and three-digit expenditures have               
    codes that start with the number "3" or "4".  So adding up all of           
    the two digit codes from 1000 to 1999 will not give you total               
    revenues.                                                                   
                                                                                
1    Page 8                                            ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
        - There is a difference between 1000 numbers and 2000                   
    numbers.  They correspond to the early 20th century categories of           
    "tax" and "non-tax" revenues.  There is no comparable meaning to            
    the 3000 and 4000 numbers.                                                  
                                                                                
        - Most of the two-digit codes are straightforward.  That is,            
    all of the three digit codes they encompass refer to related                
    aspects of fiscal activity.  On the other hand, some two-digit              
    codes encompass three-digit codes that have nothing to do with              
    each other.  This is particularly true for the "miscellaneous"              
    and "not elsewhere classified" categories 2900 and 3900.  If you            
    use the two-digit codes, it is wise to examine the underlying               
    three-digit codes.                                                          
                                                                                
        - Because this a preliminary data set there may be some                 
    problems using three-digit codes.  You may find a three-digit               
    code in the data that is not listed in Table 3 or 4.  We can go             
    back to the original files and find out what the code is for you.           
    Careful comparison of all the codes across states is the next               
    stage in the project.                                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
        There is another set of substantive caveats that the wary               
    user must keep in mind.                                                     
                                                                                
        - This is preliminary data.  The data has been carefully                
    checked for errors in transcription and coding, undoubtedly some            
    remain, but they are not systematic.  There are, however,                   
    systematic errors in coding that occur when a research assistant            
    uses the wrong code unwittingly; when one of the PI's makes a               
    mistake in telling an RA how something should be coded; or when             
    we misunderstand (or simply don't understand) what an line entry            
    is in a particular state report.  We still hundreds of coding               
    decisions to be made before the final version of the data is                
    ready to release.  For the moment you have the best we could do             
    in the first pass through the data.  We do not guarantee that the           
    coding will not change.                                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
        -  There are many wild codes.  At this point in time, we                
    have not gone back to fix problems that we could not solve on the           
    first pass through the data.  You will find codes like 9999 or              
    9990.  Those codes are for entries which we have yet to figure              
    out.  You will also find codes number 6000, which correspond to             
    transfers between funds.  These codes may (or may not) be taken             
    out of the final data set.                                                  
                                                                                
        Occasionally RA's used their own shorthand codes for things.            
    Unfortunately some of these codes did not contain four digits               
    (e.g. some people used the code 1 or 100 to represent general               
    fund revenues).  Because of the Paradox routines used to generate           
    the aggregated files, these codes sometimes get rounded to "0".             
    In other cases a 2-digit code will only have one digit (e.g.                
    divide the code 100 by 100 and take the integer portion and you             
    get a code "1") or a three digit code will have only two digits.            
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 9                   
                                                                                
    The sub-files keep the true one-, two-, and three- digit totals             
    separate.  You could, however, accidentally combine some of the             
    two- and three- digit totals by entering all of the data and then           
    sorting by code.  So be careful.                                            
                                                                                
        - There is no adjustment for fiscal years.  This has two                
    dimensions to it.  First, states periodically changed the end               
    dates on their fiscal years.  This produced some nine month                 
    fiscal years and some 15 month fiscal years.  When possible we              
    adjusted for this in the original coding (when it was possible to           
    break out quarterly expenditures and revenues, for example).  In            
    other cases we simply have to take what is given to us.  In time,           
    we will make adjustments to the data (probably some type of                 
    weighted linear interpolation), but these data do not include any           
    such adjustments.                                                           
                                                                                
        Second, you will not be able to tell whether a state is on a            
    two-year fiscal cycle, in which case this data set will only                
    report a number for every other year; or whether a state is on an           
    annual fiscal cycle and we just happened to miss a year or, as              
    fate would have it, every other year for a decade or so.  It may            
    sound unlikely, but there are over 4,000 years of data in this              
    sample and lots of unlikely things are possible.  Again, this               
    will be fixed in the final data set, but not in this one.                   
                                                                                
        - These numbers are "self-reported."  Total revenues in                 
    Vermont is not likely to be exactly the same thing as total                 
    revenues in Tennessee.  Some states include the proceeds from all           
    loans as revenues, others only short term loans, others none at             
    all.  (A classic case occurred in the 1830s when Maryland was in            
    deep financial trouble.  It received the federal government                 
    surplus payment, which it recorded as a revenue; deposited the              
    money in the bank, which it did not record as an expenditure,;              
    then the next year withdrew the money and recorded it as a                  
    revenue).   The same thing is true for various classes of                   
    expenditures.                                                               
                                                                                
        The current data set makes no allowance for such differences            
    between states.  We have not imposed any common conceptual basis            
    on the state accounts.  Again, that is something that will come             
    in the future.                                                              
                                                                                
        This is a problem that you can deal with by paying close                
    attention to some of the three-digit categories like loan                   
    revenues, loan repayments, purchase of stock, etc.                          
                                                                                
        - The accounts of some of the states are horribly                       
    convoluted.  For example, Washington broke up its accounts into             
    over thirty individual funds, all of which had financial                    
    transactions with the "general" fund.  There is ample opportunity           
    for double counting when dealing with these states.  We have done           
    our level best to take care of the problem.  But a brief look at            
    some of the states that were coded early in the project indicates           
    that we still have some work left before all of the double                  
    counting problems are taken care of.                                        
1    Page 10                                           ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
        - In some cases it was impossible for us to find a                      
    continuous series of one source document, so we had to make do              
    with two.  For example, we might have Treasurer's Reports for               
    most years, but be forced to fill in with Auditor's Reports for             
    missing years.  Or Treasurer's Reports may have given sufficient            
    details for a period of time, but then changed their format so              
    that Comptroller's reports became more useful sources.  The                 
    various reports typically report close to the same totals, but              
    the breakdowns in activity often vary widely.  Changes in two-              
    and three- digit levels of activity, therefore, may be due to               
    changes in the source.  You can check for this by looking at long           
    stretches of data: short-run blips may be the result of changing            
    sources.  Again, a problem we will address in the final data set.           
                                                                                
        - Finally, there are several states, where revenues and                 
    expenditures come from different reports and, further, the totals           
    in the two reports do not agree.  Even worse, we have some states           
    where internal accounts do not agree, although for an                       
    understandable reason.  Florida is a state where we had to rely             
    on one report for expenditures and another report for revenues              
    and the totals are sometimes significantly different.                       
                                                                                
        Other states, Iowa and Washington are the two most egregious            
    offenders, kept revenues and expenditures on different bases.               
    Expenditures were often accounted for by "warrants issued" where            
    the warrants were a kind of check (even this varied, some states            
    issued interest bearing warrants that, apparently, circulated as            
    money despite the constitutional prohibition against state                  
    monetary issue), while receipts were counted on a cash basis.               
    Most states that did this "balanced" there account every year, in           
    which case outstanding warrants were simply short term debt.                
    Some states didn't "balance" their books, at least not in the               
    published reports.  The final version of the data will do that              
    balancing, the current version of the data does not.                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
        We hope that you will find the data set useful and would                
    appreciate you keeping us informed of the uses to which the data            
    is put.  Remember for now: CAVEAT EMPTOR.  We will speed clean              
    versions of the data to ICPSR as becomes available and, we hope,            
    will have a book explaining everything going on with the data by            
    sometime in 1994.                                                           
                                                                                
        Any comments or suggestions will be greatly appreciated.                
                                                                                
    Richard Sylla      John Legler        John Wallis                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 11                  
                                                                                
                              TABLE 1                                           
                         REVENUE CATEGORIES                                     
                         2-DIGIT CATEGORIES                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
    0001        TOTAL REVENUE                                                   
                                                                                
    0002        GENERAL REVENUE                                                 
                                                                                
        1000       TAXES                                                        
        1100          PROPERTY                                                  
        1200          SPECIAL                                                   
        1300            INCOME                                                  
        1400            OTHER BUSINESS TAXES                                    
        1500            SALES                                                   
        1600            OTHER SPECIAL TAXES                                     
        1700          POLL                                                      
        1800          LICENSES AND PERMITS                                      
        1900          OTHER TAXES                                               
                                                                                
        2000       NON-TAX REVENUES                                             
                                                                                
        2100          SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS                                       
        2200          FINES,FORFEITS,& ESCHEATS                                 
        2300          SUBVENTIONS AND GRANTS                                    
        2350             INTERGOVERNMENTAL GRANTS                               
        2400          DONATIONS, PRIVILEGES, & PENSION ASSESSMENTS              
        2500          HIGHWAY PRIVILEGES, RENTS, & INTEREST                     
        2600          EARNINGS OF GENERAL DEPTS.                                
                                                                                
        2700       EARNINGS OF PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISES                       
                                                                                
        2800       INSURANCE TRUST REVENUE                                      
                                                                                
                                                                                
        2900       CHARGES AND MISCELLANEOUS                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    Page 12                                           ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
                              TABLE 2                                           
                       EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES                                   
                         2-DIGIT CATEGORIES                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
    0003        TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                               
                                                                                
    0004        GENERAL EXPENDITURE                                             
                                                                                
        3100       EDUCATION                                                    
                                                                                
        3200       SOCIAL SERVICE AND WELFARE                                   
                                                                                
        3300       TRANSPORTATION                                               
                                                                                
        3400       PUBLIC SAFETY                                                
                                                                                
        3500       ENVIRONMENTAL AND HOUSING                                    
                                                                                
        3600       GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION                                    
                                                                                
        3700       PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE EXPENDITURES                       
                                                                                
        3800       INSURANCE TRUST EXPENDITURES                                 
                                                                                
        3900       NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED                                     
                                                                                
        4000       INTEREST ON GENERAL DEBT                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    ICPSR 9728                                     Page 13                     
                                                                                
                              TABLE 3                                           
                         REVENUE CATEGORIES                                     
                         3-DIGIT CATEGORIES                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
    0001        TOTAL REVENUE                                                   
                                                                                
    0002        GENERAL REVENUE                                                 
                                                                                
        1000     TAXES                                                          
                                                                                
        1200      SPECIAL                                                       
        1210        PROPERTY                                                    
        1220        INHERITANCE                                                 
        1230        CAPITATION                                                  
                                                                                
        1300      INCOME                                                        
        1310        PERSONAL                                                    
        1320        BUSINESS                                                    
                                                                                
        1400      OTHER BUSINESS TAXES                                          
        1410        RAILROADS                                                   
        1420        BANKS                                                       
        1430        INSURANCE COSTS OR PREMIUMS                                 
        1440        CANALS                                                      
        1450        OTHER TRANSPORTATION                                        
        1460        OTHER BUSINESS                                              
        1470        TRANSIT DUTIES                                              
        1480        DIVIDENDS                                                   
                                                                                
        1500      SALES                                                         
                                                                                
        1600      OTHER SPECIAL TAXES                                           
        1610        TAX ON LOANS                                                
        1620        TAX ON MONEY AT INTEREST                                    
        1630        MILITIA                                                     
                                                                                
        1700      POLL                                                          
                                                                                
        1800      LICENSES AND PERMITS                                          
        1810        LICENSE TAXES                                               
                                                                                
        1900      OTHER TAXES                                                   
        1901          GENERAL TAXES                                             
        1910        ARREARS ON TAXES                                            
        1920        TAXES ON SPECIFIC SERVICES                                  
        1930        OTHER TAXES                                                 
                                                                                
        2000    NON-TAX REVENUES                                                
                                                                                
        2100      SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS                                           
                                                                                
        2200      FINES, FORFEITS, & FEES                                       
        2210        COURT CLERKS                                                
        2220        FINES                                                       
1    Page 14                                           ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
        2230        FEES                                                        
        2240        PROSECUTION                                                 
        2250        PENALTIES                                                   
        2270        FORFEITURES                                                 
                                                                                
        2300      SUBVENTIONS AND GRANTS                                        
        2350        INTERGOVERNMENTAL GRANTS                                    
        2360        INTERGOVERNMENTAL TRANSFERS                                 
                                                                                
        2400      DONATIONS, PRIVILEGES, & PENSION ASSESSMENTS                  
        2410        BEQUESTS                                                    
        2420        PENSIONS                                                    
                                                                                
        2500      TRANSPORTATION PRIVILEGES, RENTS, & INTEREST                  
        2510        ROADS                                                       
        2520        FUNDS                                                       
        2530        WATERWAYS                                                   
        2590        OTHER TRANSPORTATION                                        
                                                                                
        2600      EARNINGS OF GENERAL DEPTS.                                    
        2610        EDUCATION                                                   
        2620        CHARITIES                                                   
        2630        PUBLIC WORKS                                                
        2640        PUBLIC PROTECTION                                           
        2650        NATURAL RESOURCES                                           
        2660        GOVERNMENT                                                  
        2680        HEALTH                                                      
        2690        COMMISSIONERS                                               
                                                                                
        2700      EARNINGS OF PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISES                        
        2710        INTEREST                                                    
        2720        ASSESSMENTS                                                 
        2730        RECEIPTS & INCOME                                           
        2740        PRIVILEGES                                                  
        2750        LIQUOR STORES                                               
        2760        ALL OTHER                                                   
                                                                                
        2800      INSURANCE TRUST REVENUE                                       
                                                                                
        2900      CHARGES AND MISCELLANEOUS                                     
        2901          MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS                                    
        2902          MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES                                     
                                                                                
        2910        INTEREST                                                    
                                                                                
        2920        DIVIDENDS                                                   
                                                                                
        2930        LOAN REVENUES                                               
                                                                                
        2940        LAND SALES & RENTALS                                        
                                                                                
        2950        INSPECTION FEES                                             
                                                                                
        2960        PRISONS                                                     
                                                                                
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 15                  
                                                                                
        2970        SLAVES                                                      
                                                                                
        2980        MISCELLANEOUS FUNDS                                         
                                                                                
        2990        BANKS                                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    Page 16                                           ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
                              TABLE 4                                           
                       EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES                                   
                         3-DIGIT CATEGORIES                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
    0003       TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                                
                                                                                
    0004       GENERAL EXPENDITURE                                              
                                                                                
        3100    EDUCATION                                                       
        3110       SCHOOLS                                                      
        3130       HIGHER                                                       
        3140       LOWER                                                        
        3150       ACADEMIC CERTIFICATE FUND                                    
        3160       LIBRARIES                                                    
        3170       MUSEUMS                                                      
                                                                                
        3200    SOCIAL SERVICE AND WELFARE                                      
        3210       PUBLIC WELFARE (CHARITIES)                                   
        3220       HOSPITALS                                                    
        3230       ASYLUMS                                                      
        3240       SOCIAL SERVICE ADMINISTRATION                                
        3250       VETERANS' ADMINISTRATION                                     
                                                                                
        3300    TRANSPORTATION                                                  
        3310       HIGHWAYS                                                     
        3320       AIR TRANSPORT                                                
        3330       BRIDGES                                                      
        3340       WATER & TERMINALS                                            
        3350       OTHER TRANSPORT                                              
        3360       PUBLIC WORKS                                                 
        3370       RAILROADS                                                    
                                                                                
        3400    PUBLIC SAFETY                                                   
        3410       POLICE PROTECTION                                            
        3420       FIRE PROTECTION                                              
        3430       CORRECTIONS                                                  
        3440       PROTECTIVE INSPECTION AND REGULATION                         
        3450       MILITIA                                                      
        3460       NATIONAL GUARD                                               
        3470       NAVAL RESERVE                                                
                                                                                
        3500    ENVIRONMENTAL AND HOUSING                                       
        3510       NATURAL RESOURCES                                            
        3520       PARKS AND RECREATION                                         
        3530       HOUSING                                                      
        3540       SEWERAGE                                                     
        3550       SANITATION                                                   
        3560       DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH                                         
        3570       WEATHER SERVICE                                              
                                                                                
        3600    GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION                                       
        3610       LEGISLATIVE                                                  
        3620       EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT                                         
        3630       JUDICIAL                                                     
1    ICPSR 9728                                        Page 17                  
                                                                                
        3640       ELECTIONS                                                    
        3650       FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION                                     
        3660       LEGAL EXPENSES                                               
        3670       PUBLIC GROUNDS & BUILDINGS                                   
        3680       DEPARTMENTS                                                  
        3690       OTHER GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION                              
                                                                                
        3700    EXPENDITURES PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISES                         
                                                                                
        3800    INSURANCE TRUST EXPENDITURES                                    
                                                                                
        3900    NOT ELSEWHERE CLASSIFIED                                        
        3901       GENERAL APPROPRIATIONS                                       
        3910       CONTINGENT FUND                                              
        3920       WARRANTS ON ACCOUNT                                          
        3950       SOCIETIES & ASSOCIATIONS                                     
        3980       MISCELLANEOUS INCLUDING:                                     
                                                                                
        4000    INTEREST                                                        
                                                                                
        4100    SINKING FUNDS AND DEBT REPAYMENT, DEPOSITS AND STOCK            
                PURCHASE                                                        
        4110       SINKING FUND                                                 
        4120       LOAN REPAYMENT TO SPECIFIC SOURCES                           
        4130       LOANS REDEEMED                                               
        4140       DEPOSITS                                                     
        4150       PURCHASES OF BONDS                                           
        4160       PUBLIC DEBT                                                  
        4170       STOCK PURCHASES                                              
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
1    Page 18                                           ICPSR 9728               
                                                                                
                              Table 5                                           
                         Oklahoma Revenues                                      
                         File "OKREV.ISR"                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
    "OK",1908,1,1978937.7                                                       
    "OK",1909,1,7583748.64                                                      
    "OK",1911,1,8171748.77                                                      
                                                                                
    "OK",1908,10,251045.63                                                      
    "OK",1908,26,1717900.71                                                     
    "OK",1908,29,9991.36                                                        
    "OK",1909,10,3502574.43                                                     
    "OK",1909,26,4071137.45                                                     
    "OK",1909,29,10036.76                                                       
    "OK",1911,10,474930.99                                                      
    "OK",1911,12,4125668.05                                                     
    "OK",1911,26,3264475.84                                                     
    "OK",1911,29,306673.89                                                      
                                                                                
    "OK",1908,100,251045.63                                                     
    "OK",1908,261,1038168.96                                                    
    "OK",1908,262,21283.19                                                      
    "OK",1908,265,8709.19                                                       
    "OK",1908,266,649739.37                                                     
    "OK",1908,291,9991.36                                                       
    "OK",1909,100,3502574.43                                                    
    "OK",1909,261,2550548.91                                                    
    "OK",1909,262,29700.23                                                      
    "OK",1909,265,75983.2                                                       
    "OK",1909,266,1413105.11                                                    
    "OK",1909,269,1800                                                          
    "OK",1909,291,10036.76                                                      
    "OK",1911,100,474930.99                                                     
    "OK",1911,120,4125668.05                                                    
    "OK",1911,261,1807240.47                                                    
    "OK",1911,262,3284.5                                                        
    "OK",1911,264,8816.98                                                       
    "OK",1911,265,899.77                                                        
    "OK",1911,266,1444234.12                                                    
    "OK",1911,291,210977                                                        
    "OK",1911,298,95696.89                                                      
